452 THE VISNU-PURANAM

dances, and representations of the sports of Krsna.
A circular dance of men and women, however,
does not form any prominent feature at these
entertainmt and it may be doubted if it is ever
performed. Some of the earliest labourers in the
field of Hindu mythology have thought this circular
dance to typify the dance of the planets round the
sun (Maurice, Ancient History of the Hindus 1.108.
II. 356); but there is no particular number assigned
to the performers by any of the Hindu authorities,
beyond its limitation to sixty-four. At the Rasa
Mandala of the Brahma Vaivartta, Radha is
accompained by thirty-six of her most particular
friends amongst the Gopis, but they are each
attended by thousands of inferior personages, and
none of the crowd are left without male multiples
of Krsna. The only mysticism hinted at in that
Purana, is, that these are all one with Krsna: the
varied vital conditions of one spirit being
represented by the Gopis and the illusory
manifestations of Krsna; he himself being supreme
unmodified soul.
wae
