322 THE VISNU-PURANAM

(Elphinstone's Caubul, 619 : see also before
Bk.Y.Ch.JI.n.146). The Paradas and Pahlavas or
Pahnavas may designate other bordering tribes in
the same that follows, the Bhigavata enumerates
Barbars. The Vayu adds Mahisikas, Caulas, Darvas
and Khasas : the two former of which are people on
the Malabar and Coromandal coasts; the two latter
are usually placed amongst the mountaineers of the
Hindukusa. The Brahma Purdna lengthens the list
with the Kolas, the forest races of eastern
Gondvanda; the Sarpas and the Keralas, who are the
people of Malabara. The Hari Varhsa still further
extends the enumeration with the Tusaras or
Tokharas, the Turks of Tokharestan; the Chinas,
Chinese; the between the Ramayana particularly
and the works of the era of Vikramaditya. It would
seem more likely that the latter appellations were
interpolated. It must have been a period of some
antiquity, when all the nations from Bengal to the
Coromandal coast were considered as Mlecchhas
and outcasts.
eK
